Getting started,
characteristics of big data.
By now you have seen that big data is a
blanket term that is used to refer to any
collection of data so large and
complex that it exceeds the processing
capability of conventional data
management systems and techniques.
The applications of big data are endless.
Every part of business and society
are changing in front our eyes due to that
fact that we now have so much more
data and the ability for analyzing.
But how can we characterize big data?
You can say, I know it when i see it.
But there are easier ways to do it.
Big data is commonly characterized
using a number of V's.
The first three are volume,
velocity, and variety.
Volume refers to the vast amounts of
data that is generated every second,
mInutes, hour, and
day in our digitized world.
Variety refers to the ever increasing
different forms that data can come in
such as text, images,
voice, and geospatial data.
Velocity refers to the speed at
which data is being generated and
the pace at which data moves
from one point to the next.
Volume, variety, and
velocity are the three main dimensions
that characterize big data.
And describe its challenges.
We have huge amounts of data
in different formats, and
varying quality which must
be processed quickly.
More Vs have been introduced
to the big data community
as we discover new challenges and
ways to define big data.
Veracity and
valence are two of these additional V's we
will pay special attention to as
a part of this specialization.
Veracity refers to the biases,
noise, and abnormality in data.
Or, better yet, It refers to the often
unmeasurable uncertainties and
truthfulness and trustworthiness of data.
Valence refers to the connectedness
of big data in the form of graphs,
just like atoms.
Moreover, we must be sure to
never forget our sixth V, value.
How do big data benefit you and
your organization?
Without a clear strategy and
an objective with the value
they are getting from big data.
It is easy to imagine that organizations
will be sidetracked by all these
challenges of big data, and not be
able to turn them into opportunities.
Now let's start looking into the first
five of these V's in detail.